Fri, 04/20 -> Research on sample encryptor - decryptor applications online and made a flowchart for the sequence of things to be done through the course of the project. Made a new openframeworks project with the name encryptDecrypt.
<br /> <br />Sun, 04/22 -> Started with the project by learning the usage of the bcrypt significant library and finding ways to load the library into openframeworks. Since I am facing problems loading the bcrypt library into openframeworks, for now, my plan is to make a .cpp file and a .h file which will contain the code for the encryptor and the decryptor application, and using openframeworks for building the interface.
<br /> <br />Mon, 04/23 -> Wrote the code for adding password protection to the program along with methods to handle encryption and decryption.
<br /> <br />Tue, 04/24 -> Added class to the header file, build success! Next step is to remove the main method and break it into smaller methods.
<br /> <br />Thu, 04/26 -> Having gotten a basic idea of how encryption and decryption works through the encryption and decryption methods that I made, I plan to move on to the more complicated stuff, which is to use the significant library bcrypt. My last code review session was really helpful, and I got a lot of ideas about what my plan of action should be. For making the gui, I have decided to use ofxdat gui, which should not be bad to implement, and has many cool features to make an interface. I am still trying to understand bcrypt and how to load bcrypt without running into errors.
<br /> <br />Sat, 04/28 -> Due to being crammed up with other assignments over the past few days, I could not make a lot of progress on my final project. I was having some issues in my laptop as well, which took a lot of time to fix. Due to this bug, I could not download anything on my mac, as it was not identifying the admin information for the system. I used the github repo: [libbcrypt](https://github.com/trusch/libbcrypt), which I found online, and it had the source code for bcrypt as well as all the intructions required to load bcrypt. My initial way of doing it was cloning the github repository into my final project folder for xcode directly. Although this approach was correct, but for some reason it would not stop giving me linker errors. I looked up online and stack overflow, but was not quite able to resolve this.
<br /> <br />Sun, 04/29 -> Due to my first approach to load bcrypt not working last night, I went to office hours and tried working on the other way, which was to load it through a set of terminal commands. For this, I had to download cmake into my system. In this process I also learned how to make new directories directly through the terminal, and how to run a file through terminal using clang++/g++. After fixing a few things, I was finally able to run my main file, and see the output on terminal. This gave me some assurance moving forward, as now bcrypt is working for me.
<br /> <br /> Mon, 04/30 -> I realized how short I am on time, and I really need to speed up things from here to be able to finish on time. Started working on the interface, because I had not made any progress in the front end. I followed the tutorial for loading ofxdat gui, and used the github repository: [ofxdat gui](https://github.com/braitsch/ofxDatGui) to load this significant library. At this point I am working on making my front end looking better. My task for tomorrow and day after is to amalgamate the work I have done for front and back end, so that the project can take shape.
<br /> <br /> Tue, 05/01 -> My plan is to use bcrypt and have an interface where the user is prompted to enter the password of his choice, and this password will be encrypted by hashing it, and then storing it in a text file. I looked up all the code in the bcrypt library, and thought it would be a good idea to make it a little cleaner, since it contained a lot of files, and each file had a lot of scattered methods which made it really hard to understand. Hence to make the bcrypt library easier to understand for myself as well as the reader, and also to make it easier to use in my cpp file, I took various essential methods from each folder, and modified them a bit, and added them all into a big header file which I named as BCrypt.h. I am in the process of writing multiple functions for setting the password, comparing, hashing and loading passwords in my cpp file using BCrypt.h to encrypt the password entered by the user. For setting the password I had to use ofFile, which is an ofx file reference to represent the file itself, and also ofBuffer which is used to store the contents and write to the file. By using this, I am not only using the significant library, but also adding an extra layer of security to the encryptor. I worked really hard over the past few days to get here, but I still have to test this code and make the project working, so I need to really stretch myself tomorrow.

<br /> <br /> Wed, 05/02 -> I still have to comment my code and finish off a few things, so I decided to finish my development file a little before the deadline. So today I made a lot of progress in the front end part of my project. I started off the day with testing whether the functions I made for hashing the password using bcrypt work correctly. I ran into a lot of linker errors on xcode, and had to modify my code a fair bit, before I could finally test it. But the happy moment was that it ran perfectly the first time I tested it! Yayy!!. After this I started making the front end of my project. ofxDatGui wasnt giving me the output I desired even though I followed all the instructions on the webpage. There was a slight setup error, which I corrected, and it all started working after that. I decided to split my interface into 2 different interconnected scenes. So my first scene checks for the password by asking the user to enter the password, and using the comparePasswords method to compare the two hashes. If the two hashes successfully match, then it reverts back to the set password screen. I still need to reformat my code and add comments. For some reason the hash generated and stored in the file is in chinese, so I also need to rectify that. That is my goal now moving forward, and I am positive that I will be able to get it working before the deadline. This project was a lot of fun to make, but at the same time made me struggle greatly. Ooh! My friend just suggested me a cool name for the project: PASSWORD-SAFE. 
