# PASSWORD - SAFE

I have always been a fan of cryptograhy, and ever since watching the movie: The imitation game, I have been curious to know more about this. This project was the perfect opportunity for me to do some research and look at all the cool stuff we can do around cryptograhy. This project which I have named PASSWORD-SAFE, uses two significant libraries: Bcrypt and ofxdat gui. The bcrypt library was used to generate a hash from the password entered by the user. Since I found bcrypt is a very confusing library, to make things simpler and more intuitive, I made a header file, where I accumulated all the important and relevant code for the numerous header files in the bcrypt library, and also added a few things to it, to make it suitable for my program. I used ofxdat gui to make the interface which I have tried to keep very simple and obvious. This project prompts the user to enter a password, which it then hashes using the bcrypt library, and then stores the hashed password in a text file. The user can then check whether it is properly encrypted by comparing the hash with the password entered. 
If the hashes match, then the user is directed back to the home screen where he originally set the password. This is how we can tell that the encryption was successful.

In cryptography, encryption is the process of encoding a message or information in such a way that only authorized parties can access it and those who are not authorized cannot. Encryption does not itself prevent interference, but denies the intelligible content to a would-be interceptor. In an encryption scheme, the intended information or message, referred to as plaintext, is encrypted using an encryption algorithm – a cipher that can be read only if decrypted. Cryptography has always been an area of interest for me ever since I took up computer science, and I believe this will the best opportunity for me to learn more about it, and to gain hands on experience with it.

Bcrypt is a cross platform file encryption utility. Encrypted files are portable across all supported operating systems and processors. Passphrases must be between 8 and 56 characters and are hashed internally to a 448 bit key. However, all characters supplied are significant. The stronger your passphrase, the more secure your data.

I intend to make an interface for this encryptor using openFrameworks, which is going to have a rough layout of having a main menu which asks user whether they want to enrypt or decrypt their data/files, and then a leading page where they would be able to set a password for their data if they chose to encrpt or prompt them to enter their set password if they want to decrypt the files. 

An additional feature that I am considering to add to my project in the future will be a compressor tool, which in addition to encrypting, also compresses the file, and can decompress them while decryption.

